<h1>Clouds, Services &amp; Servers:</h1>
<h3>What does it do-</h3>
<p>A cloud server is a remote server that allows access to differing services depending on a clients requirements. All cloud servers provide backups for files, for smaller personal clients, they can securely back up photos and videos for an individual or family. Larger cloud servers allow for business to secure their own professional files. Business' can hire servers for their business which can lower their initial overheads as that they do not require as much expensive hardware to operate, they can purchase smaller think clients instead of a full computer modem for each of their work stations. This also reduces the upgrade costs on their computer hardware when it is due for replacement. Using this, business can outsource some things to the cloud service providers, such as securely backing up their files as one of the services that cloud servers give is to securely backup files. Along with this most cloud services includes 24/7 support for business clients in the case that they have any issues with their server.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>Cloud computing has different packages for different needs. For a smaller need, an individual or family can have access to a smaller memory bank to back up personal files, such as Google Photos which allows for an individual or family to be able to securely back up photos and videos to ensure that they are not lost in the case of an accident or disaster. An example of this would be if a child were to drop a phone that had personal photos on it, if the photos are uploaded onto a cloud server then they can be retrieved and are not lost. For business' there are different packages that are tailored towards different needs. There are general packages for small to medium business that are more affordable and generally suit their needs. There are additional packages for larger business that are more suited to their needs. Many cloud service providers also have packages for IT and web developers that are suited to their requirements. These different packages usually come with the ability to scale their needs, allowing for business growth, or other varying needs depending on other things like seasonal work. These different options allow for the different clients of Cloud services to be able to have their own dedicated server for their business for a stable platform that is maintained by the service provider that gives an ongoing stable platform for their business that can be changed or updated as the business' needs change over time.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>One important feature of Cloud storage is that it has multiple redundancy measures in place to ensure the secure upkeep of their servers for their clients even in the case of a hardware failure or disaster. Cloud servers are split across multiple secure locations with backups of the clients files being held in secondary locations. There are different levels of security on servers, with various digital securities and firewalls to ensure that people cannot access client data without the proper authority. Within Server locations there are additional securities in place that ensure that people cannot access the physical servers unless they are meant to be there. The servers are kept in state of the art buildings that monitor and maintain the physical servers to ensure that they do not fail due to issues such as overheating. Many servers are held in secure locations that are purpose built to withstand the specific hazards of their locations. Servers in some locations in Australia have seasonal Cyclones and so those servers are built in a manner to secure them against Cyclones. Other sections of Australia are susceptible to bush fires and so the servers in those areas are built with that in mind. If you go overseas then as there are other hazards and the servers are built with different considerations in mind. Japan for example, Cloud Data Centers are built taking into account that Japan has many volcanos, earthquakes and tsunami's and so the server buildings are required to be built to resist those natural disasters.</p>
<h3>What is the likely impact-</h3>
<p>The likely impact of Cloud technology in the future is not likely to change significantly to what is currently available. The changes will come from it becoming more and more used with a greater portion of the market using cloud computing and as it becomes more effective and affordable for both personal and business use.</p>
<p>One change following the improvements to cloud computing would be towards additional virtualization of workplace computing to cloud servers. As the effectiveness of cloud computers improves for business' it becomes more reasonable to have their computing done through cloud servers, instead of maintaining their own local servers, especially as the servers are maintained by specialists and usually have 24/7 support in the case of any issues arising. This also helps as it frees up workers to focus on their specialized field instead of being concerned with their local IT systems.</p>
<p>As cloud servers have constant improvement with greater storage capacity and internet speeds this will generate net increases to effectiveness from those servers. This will assist with improvements to software that are used across the cloud. As cloud processing becomes more effective the software that is being used can become more powerful to allow for it to generate superior reports and documents for its users or clients with less effort from its users, allowing for improved services and job turnover while not having to increase workload for workers, improving business&rsquo; overall performance.</p>
<p>For personal use it will continue to affect how people use their computers, over the last years there has been a decrease in the required hard drive size for personal computers as more people are saving their files in cloud storage, it is mostly people who have not up taken cloud storage who save everything on their local computer or people who run more powerful programs on their computer that require greater hard drive space. One key part of this is gamers, where they currently have games downloaded directly onto their computers, however recent development to cloud computing has started to allow for games to be played through the cloud, eliminating some of this requirement for hard drive space, however there are still issues with this technology that will likely be fixed over time.</p>
<h3>How will this affect you-</h3>
<p>These changes will affect me in various ways. For myself personally there have been moves away from storing files on personal hard drives and instead moving files onto cloud servers for security and backup, as hard drives do degrade and fail over time. This creates an additional level of security and peace of mind in case something was to happen to those hard drives to ensure that files are safe and secure. This has become even more apparent since the black summer bushfires where my family lost many precious photos and memories. Now all of our new photos are backed up securely in the cloud.</p>
<p>Within my work life there will be various ongoing changes within my current work practices. As available server size and speed increase it will increase computing speed allowing for additional efficiency when generating reports and documents at work. As servers become more affordable there will be a move away from the current practice of having a local server and instead there will eventually be a move to having a cloud server instead. Maintaining the existing server is becoming more costly as additional maintenance is required as the hardware ages and the costs of IT callouts are only increasing. Along with this it is quite costly to upgrade or replace the existing local server however there will eventually come a point where it will be more effective and more affordable to simply transfer everything directly to a cloud server, and away from the existing local server. When this does eventually occur, it should make for a more streamlined work experience however currently it is not affordable for the small company I work for to transition to cloud servers currently.</p>
